[MUSIC]
[SOUND]
Lists
are a really important
data structure in Python.
Lists are basically what they sound like,
they're groups of objects put together.
They're ordered lists, so
a list is a comma-separated sequence,
an ordered sequence of items
enclosed in square brackets.
Now these items can be anything,
numbers, strings, other lists.
Whatever data type you want, you can put
those into a list, so for instance here,
we've got pets = [ 'ant',
'bat', 'cod', and 'dog'], right?
So we've got four strings, and
we put them together in a list.
So now, this list has four elements in it,
four different strings.
Here's another list, now this one has one,
two, three, four elements in this list.
0 is the first element,
1 is the second element,
the next element is a string two, T-W-O.
Notice that you're allowed to mix and
match, right?
The first two elements are integers,
the next one's a string, that's fine.
The fourth element is
actually another list.
You look at it, it's another list
that itself has two elements in it,
4 and the string five, so that's legal.
That's perfectly legal.
You can have a list with four elements and
the last element in that list
is another list, that's okay.
Here's another list,
some lists, a bunch of numbers.
0 through 8, and so on, but that's
the idea that you just put items together,
and it's an ordered list right?
So there's a first element,
second element, and third element, and so
now we have this sequence.
It's a list of the basic type of sequence
inside Python, and they're used for
a lot of things, So,
here are some operators and
functions that operate on lists,
some of the common ones.
This is not exhaustive, but
these are the common ones.
Now, a lot of these are very similar
to the operators that we saw for
strings, so for instance, x in lst.
What that does is, it takes a list,
it takes an item, x, some piece of data,
x, and checks to see if it's in the list.
If it's in the list,
it returns true, else returns false.
X not in lst,
it's pretty clear what that does.
Lst + lstB, so list and
list b are two lists.
If you add them together,
you concatenate the list, so
you're taking all the elements of
the first list and the second list and
putting them together into one big list.
And they're in order, so
the first list elements are first and
the second list elements come next.
Lst*n, or n*lstn, n,
where it ends in integer.
List is a list,
that basically is similar to a string.
It takes the contents of the list and
repeats it over and over multiple times.
As if n was equal to three, I would take
the contents of the list and triple them.
Have the list contents,
then the same list contents again,
then again all in one big list.
Then list I,
that's again the index operator.
You can get the IF element of a list
by passing whatever at integer,
I, starting at zero,
zero's the first element to list.
Length list, L-E-N, len.
Also, there's a few counter functions,
min, max and sum, so
these work on lists of
numerical data types.
They don't work, if you don't list a list,
that wouldn't make sense, but
you can do the minimum number in a list,
the maximum number in a list, and
the sum of all the numbers in a list.
If these numbers are all numerical.
Or you've written a special function,
which we probably won't talk about, but
generally just assume they're numbers,
then those functions work.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]